---
layout:     post
title:      "Python"
date:       2018-06-18 09:41:33 +0200
categories: code
---

I code with Ruby since 2007, when i first discovered how easy it was to create a Web site with Rails, well, at least compared to the "enterprise" solutions out there at that time (to be fair, the more i study Ruby, the less Rails gratifies me).

I never really looked at Python: i already know Ruby, why have i to loose my time on another, similar, scripting language?

Few months ago i had to assist my young colleague writing a batch program to process large stocks data within an existing, legacy system written in Python.

I have to admit i felt quite immediately at home: duck typing is almost the same of Ruby, as does parallel assignment, inspecting objects for methods/properties and, although without encapsulation, object oriented design constructs.

But Python offers also some unique flavours: list/set/dict comprehensions, usable generators, first class functions (making me forget about Ruby blocks), multi-inheritance (best used for mixins) and protocols based behaviour.

More generally Python offers a rigid approach to coding, trading freedom with pragmatism, an approach that leads to few surprises and more readable code.

Indentation-scoping it is also surprisingly effective, at least when you’re not trying to use the language for templating, in which case the def-end delimiters better pairs with markup languages.

The language is around since 1991 and comes bundled with a broad, complete standard library (i.e. debugger and threads pooling, something you have to download a gem for in Ruby) and a comprehensive, powerful non-standard one (particularly in machine learning).

Furthermore most of the internal functionalities is coded by effective C, hitting you with surprising performance.

The end of the story is that i was wrong, it took me some weeks to really appreciate what Python has to offer: a simpler, crisper, faster scripting language.
