---
layout:     page
title:      "GO"
date:       2018-06-20 09:41:33 +0200
categories: code
---

I studied the Go programming language back in 2015, when the Donovan-Kernighan excellent book was published.

I immediately found Go interesting: the language takes a different turn than others, by trading completeness with simplicity and favouring a straight approach to parallelism (offering built in abstractions over the CSP concept).

Go pragmatism is reflected by its tools: a single one indeed (the go command), which compiles (very quickly) source code, runs test, fetches dependencies, runs benchmarks, formats code and generates documentation.

Go also comes with battery included, providing a broad, consistent standard library: from simple data structures, to bitmap manipulations.

Last but not least, Go is fast: being an ahead of time compiled language it provides better performance than VM-based ones, although by embedding a GC (indeed a very good one) it cannot be as efficient as a system language can be.

So is it Go flawless?

Here’s a story: i used Go to build a program to detect DDoS attacks by scanning massive Apache HTTPD logs. The experience was good, but on some occasions i feel limited (in few cases frustrated) by the language simple design.

After a year i rewrote the same program with Crystal: it took me less time, less code and i enjoyed the experience much more (and it was also faster than Go version).

I think the issue with Go is its promiscuity: it is not as friendly as Python or Ruby (but neither Crystal), but also cannot be embedded into another runtime like Rust does (having a GC and a large-footprint runtime).

I suspect that Go has been designed to satisfy first the needs of the programmers at Google and, accidentally, it suited the needs of some other programmers as well.
